                                                 -META DATA -
Author: David Bonilla

Created: 20/05/2019

Description: Postgres deployment with email alerting

                                                 -Requirements-
                                                 
1: Write a kubernetes object that will initialize a postgres instance with the below configuration:
  - user: postgres
  - password: Aw3s0m3
  - Database: WORKSHOP
  
2: Send email notification every time the pod is stopped 

3: Bonus: create a table already inside the DB

                                                 -General Analysis-

1 - Deploy the postgres container and any monitoring tool to catch when the pod will stop (Eg: Prometheus,Stackdriver,appdynamycs,relyc,etc...) This will be the most common enterprise solution from my perspective.

2 - Deploy the postgres container with heirloom-mailx and use the smntp service from google to send emails and add a prestop handler in order to send an email before lost the pod. 
         

This document will follow the second option.

Requirements:
kubernetes cluster, kubectl command-line tool, docker engine. 

                                                  -step 1 -
Create a docker file to meet the requirements, you can review the details in the "Docker file" in sumary this file will contain the postgres deployment with the requested configuration and heirloom-mailx:
  - user: postgres
  - password: Aw3s0m3
  - Database: WORKSHOP
  - create a table already inside the DB

in order to create the image run the below command:

docker build -t digital:v4 .

note: make sure you are in the same path of the Dockerfile.

                                                  -step 2 -
Submit the image to any image repository, in my case I pushed to "container registry" from google cloud.

or

you can pull the image from my personal repository if you want to avoid previous steps:

docker pull gcr.io/formal-guru-208519/digital:v4
docker pull gcr.io/formal-guru-208519/digital@sha256:12982026f4d70ebc20bcb3b449e317edbe474d388f0149019bbd74bad25eee7a

                                                  
                                                  -step 3 -
Validate the image value in the deployment file "deployment-posgres.yamls":

image: gcr.io/formal-guru-208519/digital:v4
                                                  
Modify email value in "deployment-posgres.yamls" in order to get the email notifications.

exec:
    command: ["/bin/sh", "-c" , "echo POD-EMERGENCY | mailx -v -s POD-WARNING -S smtp-use-starttls -S ssl-verify=ignore -S smtp-auth=login -S smtp=smtp://smtp.gmail.com:587 -S from=david.digital.test2@gmail.com -S smtp-auth-user=david.digital.test2@gmail.com -S smtp-auth-password=19821982DBc -S ssl-verify=ignore -S nss-config-dir=/etc/pki/nssdb/  <email@digitalonus.com>"]

Note:this is not the best approach for an enterprise solution since we have the password as part of the command but for practical execution decided to do it on this way.
                                                  
                                                  -step 5 - 
Run deployment-posgres.yamls in your kubernetes cluster 

kubectl create -f deployment-posgres.yamls

This will deploy our 3 components:
-Persistant volume
-Deployment 
-LoadBalancer to expose our db

                                                  -step 6 -
Once we validate our pod and the deployment health, we are going to test the "Aw3s0m3" password.

Run
kubectl get service postgres-digital-lb

take the external ip generated by the service and run the below command:

psql -h <ExternalIP> -U postgres --password -p 5432 WORKSHOP
  
After stablish a connection to the data base "WORKSHOP" lets validate a preconfigured table. 
run
\c postgres
type password if need it 

run
select * from games;


Type: ctrl + d in order to exit.

                                                  
                                                  -step 7 -
Lets validate pods notification, run the below command

kubectl get pods --sort-by=postgres-digital

then run

kubectl delete pod <pod name>
  
you will get a notification to the changed email from david.digital.test2@gmail.com                       
                                                  
                                                  -step 8 -
Clean all the deployment                                        
                                                  
kubectl delete -f deployment-posgres.yamls


Many thanks many things I could do it better unfortunately my job and the deadline killed me. 

I´ll really appreciate your feedback, thanks!


 
                                                                               






